As one of the world’s largest all airplane airlines, safety has been vital to the success of our business and is integral to our future development. With up to 8 flights per day and more than 450,000 passengers relying on us each year, the safety and well-being of our aircraft, team and passengers is our number one priority.
Our commitment to safety starts from the very top and involves all levels of the organization. From our CEO to our President, the Management Team, to maintenance and our front-of-line employees, safety and integrity is embedded into our day-to-day culture, training programs, policies, and procedures.
Rapid Air is proud of our longstanding safety record and industry-leading innovations to enhance our aircraft and processes. Click on the titles below to read more.

Safety First

We exceed the standard – People taking personal responsibility along with a team commitment.
As North America’s largest all airplane airline, safety has been vital to the success of our business and is integral to our future development.
Our commitment to safety involves all levels of the organization starting with our CEO, President, and our Management Team, and is embedded within all employee training programs, policies, and procedures.
Rapid Air is a value-based company and our first value is Safety – We exceed the standard – people taking personal responsibility along with a team commitment.
Through proactive management, we are able to meet our goals of zero accidents and set the standard for safety within the seaplane industry throughout the world.
This is accomplished by supporting a Safety Management System within our company, which has created a safer, more efficient environment for our employees and customers.
As we continue to strive for excellence, we are constantly evolving and changing our safety management system to meet the needs of our business and operation.

Corporate

At Rapid Air safety is our first priority and we are committed to the safety of our employees and customers. This policy aims to continually improve the safety of our operation by identifying, eliminating or mitigating any deficiencies in conditions, policies and procedures. Every employee works together to assess their work environments, monitor safety hazards and ensure that they have the training required to maintain the highest possible safety standards. Rapid Air values the health and safety of every individual, and is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all employees and customers. Rapid Air is a diverse organization with a wide variety of job environments. Each job environment has a different skill set and specific training required to ensure safety is maintained at the highest level.